# The-Careenium
"Imagine an elaborate frictionless pool table with not just sixteen balls on it, but myriads of extremely tiny marbles, called "sims" (an acronym for "small interacting marbles".) These sims bash into each other and also bounce off the walls, careening about rather wildly in their perfectly flat world— and since it is frictionless, they just keep on careening and careening, never stopping." - from **I Am A Strange Loop by Douglas Hofstadter**

Hofstadter goes on to explain that this is a metaphor for the "cranium" (go figure), and that if the "sims" are given the property of attraction, they can be renamed "simms", with the extra "m" for "magenetic". With this property, the simms will accumulate to form larger "simmballs", which, on a low level, symbolize (simmballize) the Symbols in the brain that pop up when little circuits of neurons come together to form larger, incomprehensibly complex circuit int he brain. 

Is it the simms that push the simmballs around or do the simmballs bash the simms around as they please? Is it the actions of myriads of individual neurons that govern the formation of symbols in the brain or do the symbols in the brain determine what the individual neurons in the brain will do? The answer is probably a little bit of both and a little bit of neither. 

The cranium is not just a set of neurons in a void, though. It responds to external stiimuli, such as inputs via the senses of vision and hearing. The Careenium can undergo similar processes. Suppose you push on the wall of the Careenium such that it flexes inward and stays that way. It may seem insignificant, but that drastically alters the entire life of the simms that collide with it (think of something similar to a double pendulum). In turn, the life of simmballs themselves could be drastically changes. Huge simmballs that would have formed without such a flexion might never accumulate. Similarly, perhaps small external stimuli has huge effect on the symbols that form in the brain. Perhaps not, though. The cranium might be more robust and less susceptible to succumbing to the destruction of symbols-to-be by mere "external stimuli". 

This project does not attempt to resolve these pondering, but perhaps this Careenium simulatino will be fun to watch and play with the parameters. Who doesn't like messing with people's heads from time to time anyway?
